Design patterns are reusable solutions to common problems that arise during a creative process. Design patterns can be found in a variety of fields, including architecture, engineering, and software development, as well as in everyday objects found in our homes.

Let's start with examples of design patterns found in homes. Hinges, knobs, and switches are all examples of design patterns that serve a specific purpose. Hinges, for example, are a common pattern used in doors and cabinets to allow them to swing open and closed. Knobs are used to open and close doors and drawers, while switches are used to turn lights on and off. These patterns are used over and over again because they are effective and efficient solutions to common problems. These construction patterns have evolved overtime to become more and more sophisticated. For example, knob designs evovled to incorporate a latch, and then a locking latch, and then a latch that locks and unlocks with a key.

In English, design patterns can be seen in the structure of sentences and paragraphs. For example, the "subject-verb-object" pattern is a common sentence structure that is used to convey information in a clear and concise manner. In paragraphs, the "topic sentence-supporting details-concluding sentence" pattern is often used to organize information in a logical way.

In software development simple design patterns such as loops, if-then-else blocks, functions and data structures combine to make increasingly sophisticated patterns. Software developers use hundreds of design patterns and new ones continue to be invented. More examples of design patterns include classes, objects, messages, exception handlers, interfaces, adapters, event listeners and responders, state machines, micro services, models-views-controllers, relational databases and many more. Many of these design patterns have their counter parts in DNA, proteins, and other biological components and systems.

Living organisms also consist of design patterns. All living organisms consist of one or more cells which contain information encapsulated in DNA. This is the fundamental design pattern of all life. Within DNA is the information that is used to build and maintain all living organisms. This information is encoded in the sequence of nucleotides that make up the DNA molecule. DNA consists of multiple nested and integrated design patterns. One of the design patterns nested within DNA is the coding sequence. Coding sequences make up about 2% of DNA and they specify the design of proteins. Coding sequences are made up of codons which are nucleotide-triplets. Since there are 4 types of nucleotides there are 64 (4x4x4) types of codons. Amongs these codons is 1 start codon, 3 stop codons, and 60 other codons. Each coding sequences begins with the start codon and ends with one of the three stop codons. Each of these coding sequences are transcribed into messenger RNA (mRNA) which are then translated into proteins.

Messenger RNA is then translated into a protein by ribosomes, which read the mRNA sequence in groups of three nucleotides (codons) and match each codon to their corresponding amino acid. The ribosomes link the amino acids together in the specified order to assemble a functional protein. Translation begins with the start codon and ends with one of the stop codons. Certain parts of the protein integrate with itself through interactions between amino acid side chains, forming structures like alpha helices, beta sheets, and loops that fold and interact to create a proteins's three dimentional shape. These structures are themselves design patterns. Other patterns used in protein construction include coiled-coils, helix-turn-helix motif, zinc finger motif and leucine zipper motif.

Proteins as a whole also fit design patterns such as emzymes, receptors, channels, pumps and so on. None of these proteins exist in a vacume. They all integrate purposely to build higher and higher levels of design patterns, programmed chemical reactions, and structures which integrate with each other culminating in life forms. These life forms in turn integrate with one another purposely in symbiosis essential for survival.
